who is like a wise man and who knows the
interpretation of a thing a man's wisdom
makes his face shine and the sternness
of his face is changed I say keep the
Kings commandment for the sake of your
oath to God do not be hasty to go from
his presence do not take your stand for
an evil thing for he does whatever
pleases him where the word of a king is
there is power and who may say to him
what are you doing he who keeps his
command will experience nothing harmful
and a wise man's heart deserves both
time and judgments because for every
matter there is a time and judgment
though the misery of man increases
greatly for he does not know what will
happen so who can tell him when it will
occur
no one has power over the spirit to
retain the spirit and no one has power
in the day of death there is no release
from that war and wickedness will not
deliver those who are given to it all
this I have seen and applied my heart to
every work that is done under the Sun
there is a time in which one man rules
over another to his own hurt
then I saw the wicked buried who had
come and gone from the place of holiness
and they were forgotten in the city
where they had so done this also is
vanity because the sentence against an
evil work is not executed speedily
therefore the heart of the sons of men
is fully set in them to do evil though a
sinner does evil a hundred times and his
days are prolonged yet I surely know
that it will be well with those who fear
God who fear before him but it will not
be well with the wicked nor will he
prolong his days which are as a shadow
because he does not fear before God
there is a vanity which occurs on earth
that there are just men to whom it
happens according to the work of the
wicked again there are wicked men to
whom it happens according to the work of
the righteous I said that this also is
vanity
so I commended enjoyment because a man
has nothing better under the Sun than to
eat drink and be merry for this will
remain with him in his labor all the
days of his life which God gives him
Under the Sun when I applied my heart to
know wisdom and see the business that
he's done on earth even though one sees
no sleep day or night then I saw all the
work of God but a man cannot find out
the work that is done under the Sun for
though a man Labor's to discover it yet
he will not find it moreover though a
wise man attempts to know it he will not
be able to find it